Finally, `some good
news <http://www.networkworld.com/community/?q=node/16107>`__ about
technology patents. We have known of the problems with the system for a
long time, and now that things are starting to turn around, the burden
is on the people to take the power being given them and make a
difference and show that this works.
I am calling on everyone who has the slightest time and knowledge to
contribute to this new system, because the results affect you just as
much as the rest of us. That includes all non-US citizens, because we do
live in an global village, and anything anywhere can affect everyone
everywhere.
We need to make sure the new system is setup in a way that we can
consume and digest the information in the same way we filter, rank,
pass, and project information around the blogosphere today. That means
ensuring that feeds are setup from the PTO, establishing aggregators,
tagging conventions, and working toward trusted patent review bloggers.
We can use the same tools we have been employeeing to digest insane
am0unts of our own information and apply all of that to locating the
best, worst, and silliest of claims by the patenters.
It might be great that any individual can read, review, research, and
respond to the patents for the PTO to utilize in their decisions, but
there is only so much an individual can do, even when there are many
such individuals. When we turn all of us individuals into a group, a
community, a patent chomping machine, and we can do something that is
actually bettering for the entire world.
