I've gotten a number of requests lately to contribute only Python
related material to the Planet Python feeds and to be honest these
requests have both surprised and insulted me, but they've continued. I
am pretty sure they've come from a very small number of people, but they
have become consistent. This is probably because of my current habit of
writing about NaNoWriMo every day and those who aren't interested not
looking forward to having the rest of the month reading about my novel.
Planet Python will be getting a feed of only relevant posts in the
future, but I'm going to be honest: I am kind of upset about it. I don't
care if anyone thinks it is unreasonable of me to be upset about it,
because the truth is Planet Python means something to me. It was
probably the first thing I did that I considered "being part of the
community" when I submitted my meager RSS feed to be added some seven
years ago. My blog and my name on the list of authors at Planet Python
are both as old my son, who's birth gave me the push I needed back then
to focus on my software craft and build the freelancing business that
launched my career.
In my mind you can't separate the Python and the personal. So these
complaints that any of my posts that aren't explicitly about Python
would appear on the feed feel... wrong. And they also feel strange,
because if everyone on Planet Python had only contributed Python
material to the feed I would have found it boring years ago and
unsubscribed.
I never saw it as a place to read Python content, but as a place to read
content written by Python developers. We have a lot more to say than our
indented language and that's a *good* thing. The posts about our other
interests give the community character and introduce us to each other.
To strip the community down to our writings on and only on Python
software developments feels so cold and impersonal. Is that really what
people prefer?
Please let me know what you think, on either side of this. Either way,
I've been asked to provide a narrow feed and I'll do that. I just wanted
to get my feelings out on it and I'd like to know: Am I the only one who
would hate to see Planet Python that was nothing but Python posts?
