title: "Information Overload: Needles and Haystacks"
publish_time: !!timestamp '2006-01-01 23:01:00'
status: published
type: post
rnder: jinja2
template: post.j2
tags:
- writing
- study
- research
---
So this is a little more subjective than most posts I want to make here,
but it still fits better than on either of my other blogs. Do I have too
many blogs? That will have to do, until I get around to utilizing more
proper and tag-supporting blog software. Anyway...

The internet is a amazing. The myriad of information is just
fascinating, and would be overwhelming, if it were possible for any one
person to truely grasp just how much data there really is out there. Not
only can we not possibly grasp it, but there is no way to really utilize
it. We make baby steps, every day, to obtaining more and more of that
information. Or, rather, we make steps in obtaining more specialized and
exact pieces over a wider selection of that information. The ammount of
information we can take in has pretty much maxed, I think. All we can do
now, is utilize that limit by being more intelligently selective of what
is available for us to take in.

The Needle is something you want, and maybe you know it, or maybe you
have no idea. The Haystack is, of course, the internet. How do you find
the Needle in the Haystack, especially if you don't know you're looking
for it? We need to understand what form the Needly may take, because it
could be a lot of things. Is it an informational piece of text, a
multimedia entertainment stream, or maybe a small tool you could utilize
for your own uses? It could be any number of things, but maybe the most
important part of understand what it is, is understanding that you might
not know. Convergence of all the types of Needles is a necessity to
finding what you want, because so often, we really don't know what it is
we are looking for, even vaguely.

Next part will dive into how we bring all these different types
together, and more on just how small those needles can get.
