Celebrating both my new bussiness and my birthday, my wife and I
purchased a new laptop. I'm in hyper-joy over my new geek toy and I'm
still settling into it. I've decided, for various reasons, to leave XP
installed on this one. I haven't used Windows, for anything besides
checking my e-mail, in nearly four years now. I remember most of what I
need to know to keep things running, but it will be an expirience to get
back into things. I've had some trouble getting my NFS shared visible to
the laptop, and decided to just migrate to Samba instead. I was
disappointed to find out about DVD decoding being a little off with
Windows, I suspect for anti-trust purposes, so I might have to pay ten
bucks for a decoder. Overall, I am very happy with my new laptop. DVD
burner, S-Video input, large screen, faster than my desktop. I was
walking around the house carrying the laptop to test the WiFi strength,
and its pretty good.
I've finally got Samba running, and learned how to get those shares
accessable by all the users on the laptop by setting up a batch script
to configure the drive mappings triggered by all user logins, even
though I'm the only user. I've exposed my subversion repositories so I
can collaborate with myself, and I've installed all the usual tools I'll
need for Python work. I might still be missing some dependancies, but
I'll work those out as I find them. I'm surprised that I'm actually
missing linux packaging, because as much as I complain about it, at
least it usually has automatic dependancy installation handled pretty
well. I've had to search for some missing python packages already with
no errors indicating them at all (pythonw hides all errors onto the
console, so be careful for that).
Yay.
