I have been on an eternal struggle to find the rights tools to keep me
organized and on track with my projects. Flying blind is just not
something I can do, with such a wandering mind. I especially like time
tracking tools, because if I am tracking my time in a task, I am far
more likely to focus on it until it is complete. Distractions make a
lier out of me. When Joel Spolsky blogged about the `Evidence-Based
Scheduling <http://www.joelonsoftware.com/items/2007/10/26.html>`__ in
the newest release of his FogBugz product, I finally decided to try the
service out for a new project I am starting on over the holiday. It has
been about a week and I already have some really good impressions.
As far as bug tracking goes, FogBugz seems to be bare a good deal of
similarities with Bugzilla, but is still very familiar to a Trac fan.
They've even added a Wiki, although I've not used it. I'm working in
solo on my FogBugz trial, right now. (More on that later.) I do wish for
dependancy field on cases, instead of just linking to them in the
comments. Overall I don't have many wishing for the case tracking
itself, and I'm barely using the features available.
The listing is very customizable and I've taken advantage of a few
different configurations already, so I can definitely see myself finding
more that are useful. There have been some things I haven't found the
right fit for. Notably, areas and releases have been a little awkward.
Many things cross over different areas of work, so I don't have a clear
separation there. I kind of wish for tags, instead. As for releases,
there simply are not good uses for those when a project is so internal.
I can just make a release for when we decided it is done, but then the
field is as useful as not existing at all. I tried to make
pseudo-releases for different milestones of functionality, but I am not
sure if that is a proper fit.
Time tracking, the very thing that drove me to try FogBugz, is possibly
my favorite part. Seeing what you guess and what you actually take is
revealing. I seem to guess over, usually, but I wonder if I'll see my
task estimates actually getting better as I use this over a period of
time. The feedback may train me. I've even found, so far, that the
release estimations seem to be pretty well calculated and I've hit the
dates its estimated pretty well. I want to write more about my thoughts
on estimation and how well you can estimate what you can't design until
you've done much of the things you need to estimate in the first place.
I really am loving it, but I know I need to wait out my trial before
making any final call. I think it is well worth the cost over the free
Trac and others, even for personal use.
