Do you remember when you were walking down the street and you saw that
billboard for an injury law firm, so you punched the billboard and were
teleported magically to their offices?
How about that commercial break during an episode of Friends, for a
brand of tooth paste. Do you remember kicking your TV and bottles of
toothpaste falling out of it with the shattered glass and smoke?
If you don't remember these events, why do online advertisers want you
to hit their banners right then and there, which is so different from
how you are used to getting advertisements? Because, you know and they
know, that if they do their job right, you'll remember them later, when
you need to.
In this light, I propose a new advertising model for the Web: AdMarks. I
see ads for things all the time that I would buy, or want to buy, but
that doesn't mean I can buy them right now, or have an immediate need
for them. I'm not about to follow the banner, open a new window up, read
about it, bookmark it, and come back weeks later to my bookmarked ad. I
might if it was easier, though. We need advertisements that bookmark
when clicked.
Of course, we need useful things to do with those bookmarks later. We
should be able to search them, for when we want to buy that thing we saw
a week ago. When I search a shopping meta-search site, stuff I AdMarked
should come up immediately before anything else. When I'm walking around
in Target with my smartphone, the bluetooth chips in the shelves should
tell my phone to alert me about something I was interested in. When I
happen on the website of the thing, it should know I was interested in
one of their products and tell me more about it. When I've earned enough
Customer Reward Points, they should just send me one, since they know I
want it anyway.
I'd love to see Google do this with AdSense.
