I have a great idea, Windows developers: stop being a big bag of whiny
bullshit. Oh my god, you have yet another optional API in your toolbox,
if you want to use it. Oh no! It's based on scary web thingies you
haven't used before! Guess what? COM was new and scary, and so was
Win32, and so was .Net and WFC and DirectX and everything else Redmond
is spat at your feet to walk on our praise, at your discretion, for the
last several decades. You're making a big whiny fuss because you have
one more optional API to use, for a novelty new feature that has obvious
merits, but is so obviously *not*Â the entire picture of Windows 8 that
your overt and public cry-fest would be laughable if it was even
remotely believable. I refuse to accept that the host of Windows
developers is really buying into the bullshit story that everything in
the history of Windows is getting swept under the rug and replaced by
this, that everything is immediately an old, festering legacy API with
legacy applications waiting to collect dust on Balmer's bookshelf. Not a
god damn chance. They didn't rewrite Word on top of .Net, and they
aren't going to rewrite it for HTML5, either. They're going to integrate
a lot of things the Internet Explorer 9 platform provides into the new
Operating System and they're going to do some fun looking features and
make a great effort. Hell, it might even be a Decent Product! But you
know what it isn't going to be? It isn't going to be made from scratch
biscuits from grandma's secret recipe. No. This is going to be hamburger
helper with some basil tossed in, so the cook feels fancy. Learn a
little Javascript, because you've got so many things under your belt
already that one more language isn't going to make much of a difference,
so live a little and see what its all about. Make a fun little
touch-based windows 8 application and impress your friends, and then get
back to your job where you'll write version 17 of whatever corporate tax
audit tool you've been maintainer for the last twenty years. When
someone suggests rewriting it for Windows 8, giggle with your friends
while one of the managers mentions that most the customers are still
migrating off Windows XP and IE6, and move on to getting some real work
done.
