|image0|\ As some of my readers (I have readers?) may know, I am a
frequent of #python over at Freenode. A great place. One of the most
supportive IRC channels I have ever been a member of. Over the years I
have been a frequent member of this channel, I have received an awful
lot of help. It is where I went when I first decided to learn Python,
and the kind folks there did great things to guide me along. I learned
and I stayed, because I still need some good minds to knock ideas around
with, and figure things out. I also stayed because the best way I can
repay the help I received is to return it to others who seek just that.
I want to think my help is appreciated. I happen to know it is. There is
an increasing number of regulars, learning their way through, who
explicitly seek me for help, send me entire projects to look over, and
generally befriend me in response to the advice I give them. I try not
to think highly of myself, but I do believe I am valuable to that
channel and that many others would agree.
A few, however, seem to hate my guts. A growing minority of users are
continually harassing me over my methods of giving advice. They have a
problem with how I talk to people that ask simple questions, even with
those people not being them and happily taking my advice over the
complaints of these few difficult IRC'ers. What they seem to have a
problem with is my tendency to answer questions with questions,
investigate why someone thinks they want to do what they ask how to do,
and suggesting other ways to reach their goals that may be better than
what they came seeking.
This is not a technique of myself alone. Python has a strong community
of developers with strong opinions. It is not unusual for people to ask
about threads and be told that Twisted, separated processes, or
Stackless is better. If someone asks how to set a variable with a name
in some string, they aren't told about globals() and locals(), but to
use a dictionary instead, and usually will be given a small talk about
how all variables exist in dictionary, including the globals and locals,
so there is no overhead in this and its a perfectly good thing to do.
People aren't given a gun to shoot themselves with. They are given
advice not in answering their question directly, but delving into the
source of the question and solving the problems that lead to their
asking a question, although sometimes misconceived.
Is it wrong to assume you know someone shouldn't do what they ask how to
do, and tell them something else instead? Does anyone have the right to
insult and verbally abuse those who practice such techniques of helping
others?
Does anyone have thoughts on this? Lending a hand is important, so we
should be doing it right.

.. |image0| image:: http://photos1.blogger.com/blogger2/80/2604/320/315184_bridge_detail_2.jpg
   :target: http://photos1.blogger.com/blogger2/80/2604/1600/315184_bridge_detail_2.jpg
