|image0|\ What is going on?
All around me I see people relating Python and Ruby. The communities
seem somehow intertwined with their users, usages, and publicity. It
seems like you can never find a blog that talks about one without the
other, or a new frontier being tested by one of the "new" languages and
not being explored by its counterpart. Where do people see this
distorted similarity between two languages that are as different as
night and day?
To Rubyist out there, don't take offense. I have far more experience
with Python, than with Ruby, so I might sound biased. Please, take this
as an honestly unbiased opinion. I'm just talking from the middle in
this case.
|image1|\ Python stands out from most of the other languages around.
Largely it is understood as "the language without brackets", but it is
not entirely alone there. Ruby almost appears like a language extremist.
Their core types have fifty million methods each, because if you expect
it to be there, it should be there. Python is important, because it
explores the methods a language can encourage good coding practices onto
developers. Ruby is vital, because it explores interesting constructs
like continuations and compact code forms utilizing their quirky
syntaxes. Both might have their place, but they are far different
places. Python is unassuming. It will take nothing for granted, such as
not taking for granted that you wanted a method call, not a call to a
function in some method. Ruby is assuming. It understands the difference
between objects and types, just based on the casing of the name.
Fuzzyman states a similarity between the languages, but can this be
taken as anything more than common usage? We can see an assumption of
similarity across both communities, but nothing really ties them
together anymore than any languages are connected by virtue of all being
languages.
I've been known at times to seem like a Python zealot and
anti-PHP/Perl/Ruby, but in this case I'm setting that aside and I want
to state very clearly: these two languages are not similar. They are
very different beasts, with more differences than anything else. The
illusion of a relation between Ruby and Python only harms both of them.
We have people asking for continuations in Python constantly, when they
are a great idea in Ruby, but would not likely work well in this very
different environment. Rubyist get attacked by a barrage of Rails
killing Python projects, trying to take their steam.
Shouldn't we go our separate ways?

.. |image0| image:: http://photos1.blogger.com/blogger2/80/2604/320/613892_snake_5.jpg
   :target: http://photos1.blogger.com/blogger2/80/2604/1600/613892_snake_5.jpg
.. |image1| image:: http://photos1.blogger.com/blogger2/80/2604/320/ruby.jpg
   :target: http://photos1.blogger.com/blogger2/80/2604/1600/ruby.jpg
