|image0|\ Are you or have you been new to something technical? Of
course. Have you asked a question when you were lost? Have you been
told, by those who you trusted to enlighten your path, "RTFM!"? Well,
you are not alone, and if you felt you got a raw deal, you are not
alone. However, you are wrong. "RTFM" is a perfectly valid and, despite
the opinion of many, very good advice in your time of need, indeed.
The camp of the knowledge seekers is seperated into two groups, with the
line between them varying depending on the context. The first and
largest group is the active knowledge seeker, who is after some bit of
information. The second and smaller group are those who have that
information. The seeking group has two options to get what they need:
utilizing known resources, such as books and articles and tutorials; or,
asking those who have previously sought and found, and can give them the
information they seek quickly, without wading through entire volumes of
documentation.
The knowledge holders are becoming personal googles.
When you turn a sage into a personal google, you injure the spirit of
both the knowledgeable and the Google. It is insulting to someone who
takes time of their day, away from their job and family, volunteering
for your sake, because they would prefer actually interesting questions
and if you can read it in "The 'Freaking' Manual", then its not so
intersting a problem to solve. When you are after such trivial issues,
you have a perfect opportunity to use the wonder free service offered to
you by the many choices of search engine. By going to the knowledged
with small questions, you waste their time and misuse the technology
they enjoy, which doesn't do anything but discourage their volunteering
of their time until you actually need their help, and they are gone, and
Google has reduced in its usefulness because you finally buckled down
and RTFM.
RTFM now, so you still have someone to help you later.

.. |image0| image:: http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_wACg_J16I_8/RdtPl0MFpDI/AAAAAAAAAAk/l-DB-JR5PpA/s400/707409_lot_to_read_2.jpg
   :name: BLOGGER_PHOTO_ID_5033704519599760434
   :target: http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_wACg_J16I_8/RdtPl0MFpDI/AAAAAAAAAAk/l-DB-JR5PpA/s1600-h/707409_lot_to_read_2.jpg
